Report.md, before:

# Report

This project implements a reinforcement learning agent to controls a simulation of a robotic arm. The double-jointed arm can move to target locations. A reward of +0.1 is provided for each step that the agent's hand is in the goal location. Thus, the goal of the agent is to maintain its position at the target location for as many time steps as possible. 
The objective is  to an average score of +30 (over 100 consecutive episodes, and over all agents). 

The agents is trained using Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) Algorithm based on the paper released by [OpenAI](https://blog.openai.com/openai-baselines-ppo/)

## Implementation

The implementation split into a few smaller modules: 

* model.py - Neural Network model implemented with PyTorch
* ppo_agent.py - PPO agent implementation as described in [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347) mentioned above
* ppo_train.py - imports all required modules and allows the enviroment to be explored and the agent trained
* Continuous_Control.ipynb - Runs an Agent using pre-trained weights from Navigation.ipynb

## Learning Algorithm

The agent in this project utilised code for implementing the PPO alogirthm as outlined in the [RL-Adventure-2] repo (https://github.com/higgsfield/RL-Adventure-2/blob/master/3.ppo.ipynb).	


The agent comprises of a pair of neural networks, the actor and the critic networks.

 Each network has the same architecture of 3 fully connected layers with ReLu activation on the first two layers. It also implements a replay buffer to store the experiences of an action in the enviroment, that is later sampled in batches to train the neural nets.


1. It starts by initializing the replay buffer and inital weights for the neural networks.
1. For each episode within the max_episodes given it:
	1. Resets Environment
	1. Gets current state from enviroment
	For each step in maximum number of timesteps per episode:
		1. Picks an action using state using an epslion-greedy algorithm
		1. Executes this action in the enviroments to obtain rewards, next_state, done
		1. Stores this experience in the replay buffer
		If timestep matches EVERY_UPDATE 
			1. Sample random batch of experiences from replay buffer
			1. Get predicted Q values from target network using next_states
			1. Compute target for current states using rewards + (gamma * Q_targets_next * (1 - dones))
			1. Get expected values from local model using states and actions
			1. Compute MSE Loss with expected values and target values
			1. Minimize loss using Adam Optimization, backprop and step
			1. Perform soft update of local network with target network and TAU value
	1. Keep looping until the average score over last 100 episodes >= 13
		1. Save weights of local network to file 


### Hyperparameter Tuning

The initial parameters were set to the same values as in [Deep_Q_Network_Solution.ipynb](https://github.com/udacity/deep-reinforcement-learning/blob/master/dqn/solution/Deep_Q_Network_Solution.ipynb)

	HIDDEN_SIZE         = 512
	LEARNING_RATE       = 3e-4
	ADAM_EPS            = 1e-5
	GAMMA               = 0.99
	GAE_LAMBDA          = 0.95
	PPO_EPSILON         = 0.2
	CRITIC_DISCOUNT     = 0.5
	ENTROPY_BETA        = 0.001
	PPO_STEPS           = 2048
	MINI_BATCH_SIZE     = 64
	PPO_EPOCHS          = 10
	TARGET_REWARD       = 30

This leads to an agent that can achieve an average score of 30 over 100 episodes after 467 episodes

![Untuned Params](data/images/untuned-params.png "Untuned Parameters")

By adjusting some of the hyperparameters the agent trained significantly faster.

	n_episodes=1000			# number of episodes		 
	max_t=10000 			# max number of timesteps per episode
	eps_start=0.5			# starting epsilon value
	eps_end=0.01			# end epsilon value
	eps_decay=0.98 			# epsilon decay value
	BUFFER_SIZE = int(1e6)  # replay buffer size
	BATCH_SIZE = 128        # minibatch size
	GAMMA = 0.99            # discount factor
	TAU = 1e-3              # for soft update of target parameters
	LR = 0.0001             # learning rate 
	UPDATE_EVERY = 2        # how often to update the network

The agent achieves a score of 13.01 after 163 episodes

![Tuned Params](data/images/episodes.png "Tuned Parameters")


By increasing the number of timesteps per episode it gave the agents a greater chance of obtaining a higher score per episode
Reducing the epsilon starting values to reduce the amount of time an agent picks moves at random initially
The BUFFER_SIZE and BATCH_SIZE were increased to allow the networks to train on more data quickly.
Also the learning rate and UPDATE_EVERY were decreased to allow faster learning now that there is more data to be trained on  


## Results

--TODO


## Ideas for Future Work
---

* Implement improvements to DQN algorithm as suggested in  [Rainbow: Combining Improvements in Deep Reinforcement Learning] paper(https://arxiv.org/abs/1710.02298) [Github code](https://github.com/Kaixhin/Rainbow)

* Better tuning of hyperparameters, at present it was done in a very trial and error manner and better results may be achieved using something like XGBoost or possibly even [Particle Swarm Optimization](https://medium.com/next-level-german-engineering/hyperparameter-optimisation-utilising-a-particle-swarm-approach-5711957b3f3f)

Commit message:

More changes to report , added tensorboard data, added old ga-training file

Report.md, after:

# Report

This project implements a reinforcement learning agent to controls a simulation of a robotic arm. The double-jointed arm can move to target locations. A reward of +0.1 is provided for each step that the agent's hand is in the goal location. Thus, the goal of the agent is to maintain its position at the target location for as many time steps as possible. 
The objective is  to an average score of +30 (over 100 consecutive episodes, and over all agents). 

The agents is trained using Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) Algorithm based on the paper released by [OpenAI](https://blog.openai.com/openai-baselines-ppo/).

## Implementation

The implementation split into a few smaller modules: 

* model.py - Neural Network model implemented with PyTorch
* ppo_agent.py - PPO agent implementation as described in [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1707.06347) mentioned above
* ppo_train.py - imports all required modules and allows the enviroment to be explored and the agent trained
* Continuous_Control.ipynb - Runs an Agent using pre-trained weights from Navigation.ipynb

## Learning Algorithm

The agent in this project utilised code for implementing the PPO alogirthm as outlined in the [RL-Adventure-2](https://github.com/higgsfield/RL-Adventure-2/blob/master/3.ppo.ipynb) github repo.	


The agent comprises of a pair of neural networks, the actor and the critic networks.

 Each network has the same architecture of 3 fully connected layers with ReLu activation on the first two layers. It also implements a replay buffer to store the experiences of an action in the enviroment, that is later sampled in batches to train the neural nets.


1. It starts by initializing the replay buffer and inital weights for the neural networks.
1. For each episode within the max_episodes given it:
	1. Resets Environment
	1. Gets current state from enviroment
	For each step in maximum number of timesteps per episode:
		1. Picks an action using state using an epslion-greedy algorithm
		1. Executes this action in the enviroments to obtain rewards, next_state, done
		1. Stores this experience in the replay buffer
		If timestep matches EVERY_UPDATE 
			1. Sample random batch of experiences from replay buffer
			1. Get predicted Q values from target network using next_states
			1. Compute target for current states using rewards + (gamma * Q_targets_next * (1 - dones))
			1. Get expected values from local model using states and actions
			1. Compute MSE Loss with expected values and target values
			1. Minimize loss using Adam Optimization, backprop and step
			1. Perform soft update of local network with target network and TAU value
	1. Keep looping until the average score over last 100 episodes >= 13
		1. Save weights of local network to file 


### Hyperparameter Tuning

The initial parameters were set to the same values as in [Deep_Q_Network_Solution.ipynb](https://github.com/udacity/deep-reinforcement-learning/blob/master/dqn/solution/Deep_Q_Network_Solution.ipynb)

	HIDDEN_SIZE         = 512
	LEARNING_RATE       = 3e-4
	ADAM_EPS            = 1e-5
	GAMMA               = 0.99
	GAE_LAMBDA          = 0.95
	PPO_EPSILON         = 0.2
	CRITIC_DISCOUNT     = 0.5
	ENTROPY_BETA        = 0.001
	PPO_STEPS           = 2048
	MINI_BATCH_SIZE     = 64
	PPO_EPOCHS          = 10
	TARGET_REWARD       = 30

This leads to an agent that can achieve an average score of 30 over 100 episodes after 467 episodes

![Plot of Rewards](ppo-30.png)



## Results

--TODO


## Ideas for Future Work
---

* Implement an evolutionary system or genetic algorithm based on this [implementation](https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Deep-Reinforcement-Learning-Hands-On/tree/master/Chapter16). I initally modified this code to run with the Reacher environment [ga_train.py](archive/ga_train.py). However even after several days of training it failed to converge so went on to implement this PPO algorithm. Given more time I would like to delve deeper into this GA/ES approach with more tweaking of learning rates and possibly a better implemetation of cross-over and parent selection.

* Implement a Model-Based RL agent that uses Particle Swarm Optimizatiion [Reinforcement Learning with Particle Swarm Optimization Policy PSO-P in Continuous State and Action Spaces](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/d0c4/9a9ed109cb8573217a9a0affbad7881b77a4.pdf)
